Can be taken but the next steps
looking at sort of the next
steps and maybe a plan of
action though it's not action
steps is to be able to take it
to the full board sort of
outline what is you know what
are possibilities to fill some
of these budget gaps and I'm
going to just sort of jump in
and I know that there's a great
list that people put together
I'm thinking in terms of order
that we might want to look at
the budget gaps that people
recognized. Um obviously from
the levy. Then maybe look a
little bit about prioritizing
those. You know what is the top
level? And and I think people
have already done that and I
think the list that we've got
has probably explained it. When
we do that prioritization,
there may be some things that
are money amount. There may be
some things that are need to be
need to be provided by the
school district. So I mean like
the schools will need IE will
need permission. School
district will have to give
permission to use the fields
and things like that. So, there
are some of these things that
we may need to. the eyes
prostates on or if somebody
wants to use the gym for
theater, some type of theater
activity, you know, we need to
identify that that's also
needed. It's not just the money
mount for the staff but what's
the other component that's sort
of a hidden component to it
that might cost us Um bust, you
know, the mount to the bus. So,
we'll need to maybe put those
down. You may not have dollar
amounts for them but we just
need to get a of where we are
and what we might what we might
need. So,
I guess if that sounds alright,
I'm looking at sort of identify
the budget gaps. Um what are
the other assets that may need
to support those gaps? Um some
of the short-term solutions and
then, putting together sort of
the next, what are the next
steps that we want to do to try
to move this forward and and
part of it is I think Carlin
and I both felt that we just
couldn't leave. I couldn't
leave it out there. This was
important enough the community
to try to start discussing and
it may not be perfect but at
least it's an attempt to try to
get some organization and I
know people have been talking
about it and try to bring some
organization to it. So, I guess
with that, I will try to be a
scribe simultaneously didn't
have it quite a set up because
I should have had shape with
this but I don't but I guess
what I'd love to do and then I
can put those back there but
for budget gaps, markers that
actually work
Works. Okay I'd love to find
out I want this mic so they can
hear you. Okay. Um I do want
people's input. I mean, I want
I want people's input on what
they see and then we can kind
of, I'll list the gaps that you
guys see at this point. I know
that we're still in the process
of trying to put the budget
together. So, this is going to
be a give and take. It's almost
going to be a little bit of an
adaptive process. We're
going to go through it and
then, you know, we'll probably
take a little bit of a gyration
but hopefully, we can come out
of with this and working with
the rest of the board to come
out with some solutions. So,
what do people see as their, I
would say top priority budget
gaps that they would like. We
can't do everything probably
but what are the top things
that people want to take care
of or try to address? Coaches,
teachers. We can talk. This is
a a working session. Athletics.
Athletics? Okay.
Margie, would you like to say I
like say an extracurricular
jauntish but they might be
other things. So, I was having
So, co-curriculars is great.
Cuz that included all of our.
What would I, what I would
want? Sorry. Excuse my
spelling. Um and co curricular.
The other thing though and I'll
throw out to you and just so
you know, my background's in
art, in music. I I mean art,
design, doing painting,
drawing, I played field hockey,
you know, sports. So,
extracurricular is important to
me. Um I would we may have to
and I don't mean to do that but
I think people need to think
about are there's and I don't
want to make one over the other
but are there some things that
might be more you want to see,
if we can't do everything,
what's the top list? I mean,
it's athletics, hop, and draw,
you know, and some music, you
know, trying to do that. I
don't want to say no to
anything but that's kind of I
think we should just focus on
co-curriculars that are
general. Okay. So, focus. Okay.
Yeah. You know. Okay. So, what
else might there be? Well, we
do have mister Hughes and he
does did come up with a plan.
Okay. So, what it has on the
oil?
Welcome to my world. Um if you
guys don't know me, I'm Jared
Hughes. I'm the head track bug
vendor for 26 years. Every
year, for the last 20 years,
I'm the one that proposes
appropriation to the budgeting
committee and then it goes
before the door and they
approve or whatever. I'll be
part of that. And so before the
levy, they asked a new proposal
and I added some percentages
but because there's no levy, I
just threw up some numbers so
we can have arguments on my
turn lights off. So, you guys
can see this. We'll definitely
blow it up what where where we
spend money right now? To start
there on co-curriculars, you
guys kind of see where we got
the money from in the past,
where that budget gap is that
you guys want to make up and I
want to make up. Does that make
sense, okay? So, guys, see if I
can stick this big enough.
Basically, this is my
spreadsheet and you can see
So, basically, what happens is
the first part of
co-curriculars is stipends and
the cost for benefits. Does
that make sense? Well, I don't
know about this. It's crazy. I
think I'm loud enough. You guys
can hear me? Yeah. Okay. And
so, the top benefits and these
are the positions that are on
the salary schedule and the
negotiate negotiate agreement
and our school website. For all
the coaches and advisers, it
makes sense, okay? And so, if
you look here, I blacked out
the names. Technically, they're
you guys can know them. You can
go online, look at them, I
don't care but I blocked them
out just for fun today but
basically what happened is
that's the false like
cross-country hit,
cross-country assistant,
football head, all the
assistants. This is what we've
been paying for the last five
or six years, okay? Not all
until because of whatever
reason, because numbers, but
you have to budget what you
think you would have, if that
makes sense. Like we haven't
had C Squad for girls for a few
years, but yet the budget did
just in case a bunch of girls
come out for basketball and so,
basically, what happens is When
it comes down to is the current
salaries all add up to hundred
and 1sixty-eight thousand. Down
here. And to add benefits to
that, you have to add multiply
by factor point2 two, okay?
I've asked the business
managers over if anybody get
that for salaries plus benefits
because that's the actual cost.
So, it's those part of my
coaching side that goes to my
first seat. If that makes sense
and so, you can see that right
now, if we fill every position
where it was last year, it's a
hundred and 000 but with
benefits of two hundred five.
Does that make sense? This
year, what I did is I took all
the coaches that are leaving or
gone and then put in a
first-year and if you take
because you get longevity
stipends and stuff like that
and it ends up being 156 or
190, 000, that's the
Hococurricular stipend Then
down below it is the athletic
director for the high school.
Their stipend for after school
supervision And then they
hopefully, that's good. Then
half of his salary or half of
the athletic victory salary
forever, including when I was
athletic director for three
years. Came off of this. The
teaching salary of TEs that
came up with this. So, half my
salary came for this. Uh the
junior high legenders. I
believe that's their stipend
for outside of work. Basically,
out of works outside. That's
where the to define
extracurricular gets stuffed
all outside. So, sports are all
extra after-school
co-curricular stuff for your
class and during the day. So,
that's what hopefully I can
find a few guys. The band aid
is the person who helps make
the billions of copies for all
the music departments. She's
been here for probably longer
than I have and that's just her
little stipend too. And then of
course, high school athletic
director secretary. She's just
not the AD secretary but she
also does pretty much a lot of
POs and all the facility uses
for the entire high school
athletics. So, it's more than
just sports if that makes
sense. Yeah, it is. Is that
make sense? Okay. Then, down
below are the amounts that are
get into different activities
for their startup cost. So, for
example, music was 2500. You
guys ever know that you can
have to buy music. It cost a
lot of money for their
copyright, infringements, and
all that kind of stuff. So,
that's History Music and for
band music and band music is
for the sheet music and band is
horror You guys don't have lots
of instruments and repair. It
costs a lot of money. Acadeca,
that was for all of their
outside cost or if you ever
been an academic or seen it
before, they have a huge
pamphlets. They have to print
off and every week for every
competition they go to is the
supplies. Drama, Sweet 500,
that's for their sets and also
once again, copyright. If you
buy a play, it costs a lot of
money to buy a play. For their
copyright rules and so forth,
okay? Um gifted and talented,
that was for, I'm not sure, I
think elementary teachers,
biology schools do more of
that. It's supposed to be a
little bit in there. And that
was what was supposed to work
in that concussion. As you guys
know, junior high through high
school have to have concussion
tests for your state and
district policy. That covers
our cost on our general. To do
the testing and to evaluate
post-conduction. So that we're
safe and complying with state
hands. District policy. Um
athletics for junior high. That
is just for startup cop sport,
equipment, that kind of stuff.
26, 000 that was for the high
school because they have a lot
more Officials cost because
they have more sports, more
dates. It costs a lot more for
officials. More equipment
because they have more sports
so that each of us, I mean,
it's 500 bucks for Sporterford.
Good to say. So, I get to buy
like a shotgun discus
and
then
Yes, that's that goes to the
general fund balance. The
general, I can show you in a
second. So, for example, let me
finish up. So, helmets on
there, that is for
reconditioning only and we've
kind of used it for purchasing
as well. So, you guys know that
every helmet has reconditioned
every two years to be legal for
us to use in the state of Idaho
for their protection and so
that we don't get sued like it
happened a few years ago
because of tragic accident
accident. So, that was
instilled there. Transportation
has been 40, 000 for like fire
six years. Those costs have
gone up. We evaded adjustments
but this is what they put for
now because I'm just keeping it
as this because it's a work.
So, Jared, the transportation,
that's. Co curricular. And No,
it's it's basically to pay the
cost. So, so, let's just say I
take a field trip. I get
sponsored by Priest River
Priest Forest Community
Connection for on field trips
but if I want to take a field
trip somewhere else, it doesn't
get covered. That comes out of
different accounts like
building accounts. If it is up
there. So, if it's drama, band,
choir, want to go to solo
ensemble or whatever it is.
They can dip into that money.
Does that make sense? It
depends on administration. ADs,
that's athletic directors.
Sometimes they say, comes out
of a different account like the
26 thousand. Sometimes, they
say take it out of forty
thousand. You know, it's up to
the administrator
but the biggest thing is on the
levee since twenty twenty, I
believe. It was 399, 000
because of unfilled positions.
We only used 396 last year. So,
it's like 3000 bucks extra is
all, okay? That's if you feel
different position. This year,
if you guys, if you just take
off like the a tenured, I guess
you could say coaches and put
in a first-year coach there. It
ends up being a little bit
different. It's like $18, 000
difference So, does that help
understand what the
co-curricular portion or
extracurricular portion is,
where every little dollar goes?
Some people in the past four
told this and so they don't,
hey, I got money for buying
music and I didn't know about
it because we have such a high
turnover rate for teachers and
so, but I thought that would be
a good starting point to look
at what I've been proposing for
20 years with the other
principals and so forth to
kind of show you where it's at
now. Where it's supposed to be
broken down. I guess that's
where I'm at. I know and not
everything else is for you guys
besides the board. Personally,
I think that it's, I'm not
going to say what I say right
now. So, at basically like
this, what I can say is looking
corny over the budget, being
the budgeter, I was the person
like Cathy who looked at all
246 pages of the budget over
the years. I think the money is
there. If we just do some, I
guess, creative, logical
thinking but if the community
helps, it's up to the board to
decide how much the community
wants, they want community help
or. I think that maybe what I'm
thinking of is that would be
under solutions. I mean, I
think the solutions might be
That's unheard of. That's where
we're at. Can I ask you? Sure.
Back to Billy's question. So,
these are levy funds. It should
be carried over to whatever the
lineup is. Yeah, but it goes.
But for the general fund that
becomes not just Yeah. But
realistically, usually it's
just like three or four
thousand dollars extra and it
gets carried over but that
could also be used because the
other things in the past say we
get a bunch of helmets or a
bunch of some breaks. If
there's overreaches on the
salary portion of it, say we
don't feel like five or six.
That's about ten, $15, 000. We
could use that to buy a basket
broken or something if that
makes sense or usually a safety
issue, help us I guess you have
to, you get a big influx of
people on these helmet and how
much cost. If you don't know,
they're like 500 bucks now.
No. It depends. I don't know
exactly stepping that fast. You
guys have to answer me. If it
goes back to mentally fund or
does it go back to
co-curricular
Back to that.
The ballot. Okay. Did everyone
hear that? But it goes, it goes
into a levy account number is
what Stephie is saying. So, it
doesn't go into the accounts
are coded if you've ever
requested records. So,
technically, it's. Yeah. So,
anything that starts with the
one is considered the general
fund and so technically, it
goes back into the general fund
but we further divide out our
general fund to better identify
levy dollars. So, general fund
would be anything starting with
a one one. Our levy dollars are
one oh1, one02, one03, and one
oh four. So, we just kind of a
better identify and so the two
thousand, the one to the left,
I can't see which year that is.
Um. That's last year. So, last
year would have been, is that,
it would have been like that
would show up in one oh, is it
one oh two? I can't remember
what it is, right off the bat,
but the left side would show up
under one levee, the right side
would show up under the other
levy that's for this year. So,
it does, it does show up. Four
years on the books. Books. That
is what they have there for us
and you can see that on the
treasurer's report at the end
of the board meeting or the the
board books, monthly board
books. I know that we have a
great list of things and I know
we're jumping around. It's a
little new to do this but you
you created this great list. Do
you want to if we're talking
about some possible solutions,
do you want to run over your
list that you put that or
whoever put together that we
have here? Do you?
Okay.
Yeah, but do you want to write,
read off some of it? To share
with the what you see as
solutions? Put you on the, I'm
going to, this is a community.
This is going to have to be a
community process and a
commute, I mean, I know I'm out
to answer the question, we're
going to try to bring it
together so that the community
is part of this decision.
Yep, I'm going. Okay. So, with
what Jared is sharing, a big
concern has been, is there a
way for the community to raise
funds to
fill the shortfall gap Like,
can we write grants? Can we
fundraise? Can community
members donate money
specifically for, let's say,
band, or music.
And Steffy, what fun for them?
Is that something that has ever
been done before? Fundraising?
Yes, you have, right? And what?
Look for this large amount.
This. Yes. Has not been But if
we decided to have a community
come together, say
hypothetically, Booster Club
and do a lot of fundraising and
write grants and get the
community's input, have coaches
involved, and we are able to
raise enough money. We can do
that as a district without
concerning and getting voted
down by the board. Is that
correct?
So, just thinking about
I'm going to repeat but I heard
Yes.
The fundraising to
to go ahead and have the Well,
no, we would have to have, we
would have to have approval and
board approval but we could do
that in a sense and is there an
account that we can like a a
booster club fund is there and
a booster club or is it
separate entity? Community to
feel safe donating to the
That's where I'm currently now.
I want to make sure that it's.
Yeah.
Direction of superintendent. Uh
priest like education
preschool at Priest Lake
Elementary. However, they do
run their funds for the
teachers
when it runs through the
district
that
Sou I'm day
if I get all my money together
for my sport.
And that's why even though some
of this is our Yeah but it has
to be in that same season,
right? You have to have a boy's
sports ride So, yeah.
Faithfully, wrestling had girls
wrestling.
Something that we've told the
girls is that we probably won't
have transportation. They all
seem on board with that. That
they still want to play. They
still want to play and their
parents will get them even five
to six hours away. So,
a short
term. I think if we
have to it wouldn't be fair to
the kids but they want to play
that bad and I've talked to my
assistant coach and again, I
don't know what title nine
rules are but we're willing to
volunteer our time to be
coaches. Majority of the
coaches have volunteered their
time. So, if we scratch that,
or almost in their place Cuz I
think somebody has to be liable
or softer, right?
Well, there's we put a policy
in last year. Last year, we did
a policy though that
transportation can be done by
any. Yeah, we had a policy.
There is some concern
I would recommend to
So,
So, Grangeville City.
Grangeville
but they can attract for
districts. The the the track
team actually raised the funds.
Yeah. To pay for like like a
field trip. Priest River Priest
Force Community Connection pays
for my bus. So you
Yeah. But we also have Courtney
Charter, your parents are in
charge. So, you, the coaches
are in charge from the moment
they get here to the moment
they get back with those with
the charter, it's the moments
you're at the facility for your
competition until they're
signing out with your parents
if that makes sense. So,
there's different avenues.
Grangeville kind of mix of
those I think where you can
just say, parents take them to
Twin Falls. I don't think
they've been busted for sports
for about when I was athletic
director. What was that? 1450?
Even since then, it was all
parents. There was no
co-curricular transportation
team laws and that's a large
bar. And that you said that was
twin spot. Twin spots. I
changed it but back then it was
for many years that they just
had to retire. And then do you
think coaches could You're a
liable. Yeah. So, parents are
in charge of their kids until
they get there and you so you
so, you're liable if you drive
a kid somewhere. Like, I'm not
supposed to drive take a kid
home. I really, unless I'm
related to them, I don't take
them home usually, right?
Because of liability issues, Um
parents can sign them out. So,
so you're coaching and I have a
and my kid, I signed them out
to you as another parent. Then,
you can transform my kid. If
that makes
Have the IHSA insurance backing
my program. So, if something
happens and I have to look at
the legality of that but if we,
you know, part of that 26
thousands, we have to pay for
every single sport to be part
of the Idaho Active Association
and which means we have their
catastrophic insurance built in
there. So, if someone does have
a catastrophic injury, the
district isn't out of it in the
state pays for it. So, I would
suggest you look into the
reality making sure at least
one coach is paid and under the
district's guidelines. Does
that make sense? I I would make
sure that it's covered. I'm not
sure. What if someone has like
tenure to
and or split cycles and pay for
gas money kind of thing, you
know. It's up to the coaches. I
have different I'm I'm not
prepared. I'm an employee. It's
hard to interrupt you. School
districts.
Pta. Sorry about that. Parent
teachers. And they call it PTO.
PTO. Oh okay so. parent teacher
organization. And again,
apologize to bring up to other
state but in Washington, is
allowed to fundraise and they
do not have to go to to bring
forth to a different group, any
group that says, hey, we need
$5, 000 for a wedding They
sought to follow policy and
procedure to do that and we
have to have approval. Yeah.
But as far as I know there,
they don't have to go through.
Yes, they do. I'm employed. I'm
I'm employed by it. Yeah. I'm
saying the PTA, I don't think
they do because they're
established. Yes, they do. Same
with the Booster Club. Parent
Teachers Associations and then
the high school, we have not
had a pair of teacher
organization. No. For 20
Booster Club. How many members
are there? The Booster Club is
different because of their
bylaws. Right. They would not
cover the co-curricular
portions of it. They only cover
the extracurricular portions of
it. So, it's important to make
sure that. We have the right.
So, committee. We need some
parents together and start the
PTO back up. That's another
option too.
And they want a building that
Well, there's Susie. Cuz there
is a way of at least up north.
I mean, a priest like
elementary. it seems like the
local PTO raises money and I
don't remember going through, I
mean, it's never, you know, if
we want to purchase something.
Where did you know. Okay.
So, right now, just to get over
that. I have two accounts for
traffic. One is the district
and then the one of the track
fundraiser And so what ends up
happening is the fundraiser
funds can carry over if you
roll over funds that we have
The athletic club, if you don't
use it all, it gets rolled over
absorbs back in here. So, what
you're talking about is the
music department probably has
two. I'm not sure if they have
two or not. Most of them do.
So,
district basically has
Anyway,
and I think, you know, for fun
purposes and Stevie's talked
about this that I know for the
the organization, the nonprofit
I work with, you need to be you
know, if a, if a funder gives
you an individuals, our
funders, in my mind, if funders
give you money and that
specified for extracurricular,
co-curricular activities, you
better spend it there. Oh,
yeah. Um, you don't and and
there we. And, you know, it
would, and I think, I mean, if
that's, that what it's tagged
that's what it should be used
for. Um how the avenue, I mean,
I could see one thing being,
you know, raising private
funds, you know, I mean, guess
part of the solution in my mind
is, are there money in the
budget that we haven't talked
about as a board, you know, and
you know, that we might have,
that might be able to help with
this. Um are there, how much
funds could we raise in the
community? Um do you want to do
it as a lump sum and then give
it or I mean, is it better to
try set up Maybe it's an
account, maybe it's the one
place where it might be a board
approved is an separate account
for extracurricular,
co-curriculars set up to start
with and then Stephie's
probably going up, but that
it's we are able to track it
and identify it and and track
the money. Make sure it's going
where it wants to go.
Suggested for that. You know,
because there's some of the
things that are out there are,
you know, how do we identify, I
mean, I guess the other piece
of this and again, we can put
sort of together a plan and
sort of a draft plan or a draft
idea to take back to the board.
Hopefully, at this July
meeting, the the July monthly
meeting which is kind of late.
Maybe we try to do it earlier
but we've had a lot of
meetings. Um it's it's to go
ahead and try to put a you
know, how much can we have
under the budget that we have
right now? Is there some money
there? How much is the
community going to willing to
try to to to raise? There may
be not just money but how do we
account for the assets we need?
Like, the auditorium for a
dance recital or a play. how
can we put numbers under behind
that so that we can or the gym
here? How do we, how do we do
that? We'll we'll need to
figure out how do we put
dollars amounts to our assets.
I mean, Jared did a great job
of what we've got but I think
there's some definitely some
missing cost there that we have
to identify facilities, the
facilities assistance, having
the lights on. Um so, that's
that would be part of it. I
think grants. So, I guess.
All sedentary conditions
So, facilities
and bless the coaches
and again, remember, these are
just
there is state reimburse
They go into a session so it's
So, and so Jared, the the thing
to be pointing out, these are
definitely correct me but these
are ninety, nine nine nine
funds. So, these are the
student body funds. If you look
at the monthly board meeting in
one of the last reports,
there's a treasurer's report
and there's a student body
report. So, what you're looking
at are nine nine nine and then
the other codes will tell you
whether it's junior high, high
school, Idaho Hill, Priest Lake
Elementary, PRE. So, where
these are go, that's if you're
going to look at where they
are, that's where you're
going to find them.
Whereas the
Yeah. Wait, oh, we're coming to
eat.
So basically though
has to be the starting point.
In baseball field,
or the timeline.
And just because baseball
raises ten thousand
But we all complain
and that's and out of what
funds for our
the salaries of our retired
teacher
I didn't worry that the promise
is forth
Since there's no
you're going to have that
little bit
So, can
a person
district office and like to
donate my tax money to
I want to donate my tax money
to my tax money to the science.
Just be some of nightmare for
you
Almost like how
donate your taxes and people
could donate whatever and then
is that would that be easier
towards byla
if I went in and said, hey, I
want 20 jackets.
They would agree to that is
that it stays within the
school. That's part of a
uniform. We're not buying
something to a kid to keep.
That's how the Booster Club
works. Yeah. So, and since I
have this, what is the
shortfall number we're looking
at for athletics? Maybe that's
where we should start there and
see what we can raise from
that. We're asking all these
questions but we don't know the
amount we're looking at.
Then what would be the total
that
So, like, it was
something that we, you know
Yeah, I I didn't give a dollar.
When we fill out the You don't
care that you want
start requiring that every
they they pay the Yeah. That
says how much it is for
custodial or using the kitchen
board gave direction.
So, where are the other areas
you guys are
You know, because I think
honestly, if you budget it in
and then you guys donate back
to the program, I think it's a
better. Yeah, but I mean like
the at least the assistant.
Yeah, the assistance now but I
think that they're going to
require whatever you guys do is
choose to. If you choose
that you thought it was by law,
somebody has given me. So, I'm
something about Delta with
Idaho. What is with the high
school, the high school
But but not Percy. Not
if they're not, if they're not
employed by the
So, I'd be like, I'm going to
ask her throw a question out
money there. Any money right
there. As this hundred 160. 5%.
It's actually my item on the
last question.
That's what this is. The budget
here
So, in theory, that could get
taken away
But we need to make sure that
It just has 100% line eye. That
not broken down by where it
goes. Let's just remember the
discussion in the auditorium
it. So, I, you know, that
I'm not everybody's opinion
and I.
Epidemic. I mean, we've just
done what we did. Yeah. So, we
really did well. So. I left it
on there which I think is. It
was just
So, that, I don't know who said
it about potentially having
athletics but it's taking away
from the teachers and the So,
that can be proposed to and not
have to affect any of those
other jobs or other positions
or people or programs at all It
depends on Nelson right now.
Under his I mean, I I think
that's part of the equation or
part of the discussion is what
can the budget, the district
budget
porridge with pulling away from
the actual education needs to
be really taken care of. I
mean, we're here because we
need to educate kids but we
and so, we want to make, we
want to make sure that in this
plan you know, a
on this but there are that's
what I'm saying. There's some
other things
I mean, we can even get that
number down as parents
You know, Jennifer Tran is
renovated by going five to six
hours, two times. Right.
There's going to be a lot on
that one family that drives ten
kids. They took that 16 to 20,
000 Yeah. And they said, let's
do this. Community
And that's what I'm saying. So
and cover that like I said with
fundraising what they would
need for their share. Yeah, I
get paid
take that check and fund it
back into So, I think the big
question I have is that I mean,
I think people are willing to
donate
comfortable donating
costs. It's athletics. So, I
Because so I would do this
talking to just talking out the
hall and
I mean. Yeah. The board has
never
they're staying right now. What
I'm hearing is right now, they
are not attached to
So, moms and paws has their own
board, their own group, and
their own president how they
run it separately and clubs and
sports and go to them and ask
things and they look at it.
They look at it and decide
based on how many kids are on
teens and they try to keep it
even title 9 piece. So, it's
it's possible. I mean, there's
a wealth of information over
there that I think you guys
should tap into. So, how is it
spelled
X and pause.
The group of like five or six
ladies that does all of this.
Yeah, well, we have Savannah.
So, we have an event. Yeah. So,
when we were doing the to go
down and and do what we
the what? Okay. Whole tummy.
And we had six
very sad. I mean, so we've
really, I mean, everybody here,
we really have to go out and
we've gotta get on this.
Hold the phone separately or is
it
But it's a starting point. Yes,
that's what I'm getting. Also
on the Netflix, when you start
PGO, there's a lot of things
that we can do. We need
somebody to head those things
and just go for it and people,
I mean, become passionate about
a sixteen thousand is a
starting point for us. I mean,
we'll get this. I only need
budging up at seventy-two
thousand
having all the money in the
beginning. Yes. Because I worry
about the kids that play spring
sports or football gets to go.
Basketball kind of gets to go.
Spring sports get not to go
because there's not money. I
think we need to try to come up
with something where you can
try to make the bulk of the
money all at once as opposed to
okay let's get just enough to
get started. Cuz I think if we
do let's just get started. It's
fall apart down the line. Yeah.
Because when my when my kids
were in school, when Ben was in
school, the baseball team and
the softball teams, they got
the shaft. If somebody need a
uniforms, it wasn't them unless
the coach paid for em because
the money was gone and I think
in, I'm not, I can't say it
still that way but on track,
I'm sure it probably has some
of the same issues because the
budgets are gone. And then you
get to spring and it doesn't go
as well.
Cheap sport is a lot of a
certain
It's not
the the biggest thing is
starting with a 000 is to get a
coach you already have
schedules. We're starting to
fill in the rest of the stuff.
We have to do fundraisers. Like
three proposals actually. One
is I think the district
potential to find 400thousand
which is about 2% of the
overall budget could be there.
That's the first. That's like
option A for me is BET like
Whitney talked about maintain
all the people that we've
already talked about. Paracros,
everything else and see what's
left. You know, actually look
in there and see if there's
that 400thousand. That's option
A. Option B is this one. Where
you just get things started and
then fund raise. Option C is
and I I I guess if you was
talking about earlier, this
game of like just a
co-curricular levy. Just the
backfield, you know, the 300
Does that make sense? I think
that would be options key for
me. It was like, start with 116
on the August.
A resolution or delights in but
what I would do
Realistic though, I mean, if we
can get
and if that gets shot down then
we can go to auction
need to have another thinking
and we could have another if we
can go out and get this session
answer some of these questions
and so, oh, perfect. Thank you,
mister Hughes. Perfect. Um with
that being said, depending on
the direction and the outcome
of the budget hearing or the
consideration and adoption of
the two thousand and twenty-3,
2000 andtwenty-four budget. I
think that that would give this
group and maybe a bigger group,
a little bit more direction on
how to generate that revenue
What's that? You don't need to
plan anything until tomorrow.
But we should we should look at
what we need to follow up on.
Like Also the the pavement for
the Idaho Sport, the Idaho's
athle
Okay. And so there's I I guess
I hear a lot of ideas and I
hear a lot of really good
ideas. Um and we've been going
back and forth between the
revenues and the expenditure
side with these ideas. Well I
guess all I'm trying to provide
point of clarification on
tonight is that I do believe we
will all be receiving a little
bit more direction after
tomorrow night. Hopefully
maybe. And because are options.
Uh the board could direct
superintendent then direct
myself to provide edits in the
budget to include that full
asking price. That was on the
levy proposal into this budget
proposal. And
use fund balance in order to
cover that. Uh the board could
decide direct superintendent,
direct myself to make an
adjustment to the way that we
were currently funding staff or
the percentage increase for
that staffing or the salary
matrix for that staffing and
then there in allowing for the
support of co-curricular,
extracurricular activities. Uh
there are options is my point.
Well, why is July 16th time for
them to decide
much money from what we want
and why
Miss Chamberlain, I'm not sure
why you're asking me. I've I've
been working at Per Board
Direction on all of this. Um it
wherever the board and the
superintendent tells me to
calculate the numbers or
allocate these numbers. I have
no hesitation in doing so. So
She can't answer that. That's
it. There's a lot of variables
in that question. That's not
yes or no. And I think
and study
what we know.
So, we need to get the
community involved and be
and that is somebody who can't
do There you go. So, what I'm
saying is is that we have.
I'm sorry. What was that?
Trying to expand the PTA.
Expand the booster company. Oh.
Just be at the high school but
to include the junior high.
Absolutely. I don't know why
that but we have to as a
community pull together. I
mean, we've had four people
doing it for several years. And
so we've gotta step up as a
community. We want these things
but now we have to put in our
time. We've gotta get our hands
dirty and our feet wet and jump
in. And. So does anybody
articles of Incorporation and
the Bible
Because we want to I don't feel
if money is raised and it's
outside
So, that's why you have to be,
you have maybe that the Booster
Club expands it you have to be
careful. That's, you know, how
will come back in the
collision.
We amend our bylaws. So, PTO,
president, could we amend and
expand it through junior high
and high school? Visit our PGO.
Mm hmm. That would be kind of
tricky to because we have Idaho
Hill has their own PTO, police
makers, their own
which one expands into the
junior high. I guess
PTO is in our elementary
school. Maws and Paws covers
ATO governing piece that's not
directly through the school so.
So we'd be better off expanding
booster through to conclude
other co-curriculars and
include the junior high than 2
years. So get parents involved.
But if you got a but if you did
but if you expanded booster you
started them in seventh grade
and you get them up through.
That's right. So four or more
with more kids. Yes. So. And
then is there an application to
sign up for Booster Club? Will
you bring 100 copies tomorrow
night? So we can all sign up
for Booster Club because we
want to make sure that we are
Doing our due diligence and if
we want this to happen, we need
to all put our feet in.
I'll sponsor somebody else if
they want to put in the time
and I'm going to sign up and
put my money in too. So, if
people want to I think tomorrow
will give us some more
indication. I mean
it's going to be hard to know
what that will give us some
more interaction maybe where
we're going and we can start
doing these other things. I I
will commit to reaching out to
Grangeville and Twin Falls
information about the forums
that are that the parents use
or however it was whenever
Jared whenever you said I'll go
look at their athletic program
and how they have the
transportation just so we have
that unique as we still may
have other transportation
issues so we still might want
any so I'll be all committed to
do that. Jared, will you commit
degree looking at that, you
know, coming up with the need
just in case we need it. A
nice, a nice, knee revision. Of
this? Of that. Um.
Somebody who got the Booster
Club I still think I would
suggest that it would look at
the mission statements that and
then, I don't know. There's
grants out there If anybody,
maybe people start making a
list of
and it may be funded by the The
other thing that comes to mind
is what's, you know, we have a
fifth day. So, even if we start
raising this money for here, it
may actually just help someone
I mean, Liz did it, you know,
she really tried
bring our roots together. The
groups come together to try to
also
I think the boost. So, those
are the things people time next
week that they want a meeting
today
keep hearing Stephanie say
what meetings are already
scheduled for the school board
next week.
There's a
On the fifth. On the fifth from
five to seven. So we could do
it
Emma did three days this
morning
So, is everybody else? Well,
it's it is Sports Supply
weekend. So, you can probably
get me up too. I mean, if we
could back it up, it's a little
late and maybe we can just do
it. I hate to say this but
maybe people eat dinner first
coming here from 5 to 7
He said. Longest afterwards.
Would that work
reset it, then we'll be here.
Yeah right? So, let's go for
maybe the consideration of when
the meeting should be
scheduled, could be determined
That's a good idea, Steffy. And
then we'd know
it is a it is you did notice
this through a as a board works
and I believe that
so with that being said
tentatively would try to shoot
for because we come fourth of
July weekends
said that they are still male.
So Beth, she told me that like
last week
Uh so that's still that's still
on the table
I guess the question is, given
what Stephanie said, there may
be some things that the with a
makes a decision on it. But do
you all still want to try to
meet just to see where we are
when I mean, there may be gaps
here. The thing is, we may get
or may say decline will do the
whole thing There may be extra
significant Yeah. You know, and
that would be put down
somewhere else. One of the
things that they're
and and Stephie, we don't, we
can
Barton and myself together, two
of us can
and they would bring it to
Chair Rutlech's attend
but I just didn't want to I
guess again, didn't want to sit
on our hands and wait
or do you have to get every
single work session I would say
in good faith and protocol, we
probably should make sure that
we are above and maintaining.
Um but if Booster Club has a
beating and fundraising ideas,
maybe we should all go to that
and that doesn't have to be
approved by the board. Correct.
Sit. Put that in your phone
peoples. Peace. What is it
again? PR. I'm going in right
now.
So, since this is a word
session
So, if anybody wants to help,
remember
So, I will
these will be at least put it
with the
but it can be attached to the
notes will be there. I'll try
to get them so they
I'll try to text them up so
that we
that hasn't been changed yet
but the July
right?
Surprise, surprise.
In an event on their Booster
Club Facebook is a membership
course. If you go on there, she
doesn't have to bring a hundred
Or you can still bring a
hundred if you're probably
you, you too. Thank you very
much. Please put your chairs on
top of the table if you leave.
Thanks. Thank you community for
coming, supporting